think this model is actually very good
at multi-turn conversations and it's
very nice to continue working on a task
with I think that's one of the
deficiencies of deep research. Um a lot
of people will do multiple deep research
requests in a single conversation but it
doesn't always work so well. So I think
we're really happy with this model's
multi-turnability and we just want to
you know improve even further. And then
I also think like personalization and
memory for agents will also be very
important. And right now every agent
task is initiated by the user, but in
future it should also be doing things
for you without you having to even ask
in the first place.
[Music]
Today we're exploring the evolution of
AI agents with Issa Fulford, Casey Chu,
and Edward Sun, the OpenAI team behind
the new chat GPT agent. You'll learn how
they got to a huge leap forward in
capability by unifying the architecture
across deep research and operator,
allowing for multiple tools to share
state, giving users fluid transitions
between visual browsing, text analysis,
and code execution, all within a single
environment.
We'll discuss their training approach.
Rather than programming specific tool
usage patterns, they let the models
discover the optimal strategies through
reinforcement learning across thousands
of virtual machines. They've created an
agent that can work alongside you for
hours, asking clarifying questions and
accepting mid-task corrections,
expanding the ways that we can interact
with AI agents.
The team shares fascinating challenges
around safety, guardance around agent
activities, and why things like date
picking still remain mysteriously
difficult for AI systems. They've
revealed how a small focused teams are
achieving breakthrough capabilities
through careful data curation suggesting
that we're now entering a new phase of
AI development where product insights
matter just as much as compute power.
Enjoy the show.
Issa Casey Edward, thank you for joining
us today.
>> Thank you so much for having us.
>> Um, so you're the team behind the chat
agent or agent mode. What is it? Yeah.
So, this has been a collaboration
between the deep research, the former
deep research and operator teams and
we've created a new agent in chat GBT um
that's able to carry out um tasks that
would take humans a long time and we
gave the agent access to a virtual
computer and um through that it has a
few different two different ways to
access the internet or actually more
ways but we'll get to that. Um it has a
text browser um which is similar to deep
research tool. So it's able to
efficiently um access information online
and search through things with this very
um fast text browsing tool. And then it
also has um a virtual browser which is
similar to the operator tool. So it
actually has full access to the
graphical um user interface. and it's
able to click and type things into forms
and scroll and drag and all this kind of
um you know all these kinds of things.
Um so together it's much more powerful
than either of those two tools because
one's more efficient and one's like much
more flexible. And then we also um gave
it access to a terminal. Um so it's able
to run code and analyze files and you
know create artifacts for you like
spreadsheets or slides. Um we also um
through the terminal it's able to call
API. So either public APIs or private
APIs. Um if you allow if you if you sign
in it could access your GitHub or Google
Drive, SharePoint, many other things. Um
and the cool thing about this tool is um
all of the tools have shared state. So
it's similar to if you're using a
computer like all of your different
applications have access to the same um
file system and things like that. It's
the same for the tool. So the model can
do quite flexible things. Um and um
yeah, we'll talk more about this later,
but I think it's just a very flexible
way for the model to to do very complex
tasks um on behalf of of of users. Tell
us a little about the origin story. How
did this get started?
>> Well, our team worked on operator. Um
>> and our team worked on deep research
>> and um so back in January um we we
released our first agent operator. Um
this is a uh product that can um do
internet tasks for you like buy things
on the internet, shop for you, this kind
of thing. And then two weeks later,
>> we released deep research um which is a
different model that's uh or a different
product that's able to extensively um
browse the internet and synthesize
information and it creates a long um
research report with citations for you.
And we were kind of thinking through our
road map and we were kind of like hey
this is kind of a a match made in heaven
here like um so you know operator is
really good at visual um you know
interacting with a web page um but it's
less good at kind of the text browser
like reading long articles whereas deep
research is really good at reading long
articles but it's um has a tougher time
with like interactive elements or like
highly visual things
>> um
>> because the tools are different. So deep
research has a text browser. So it's
able to really efficiently read
information and search and um synthesize
information but um it's not able to like
uh scroll and click in the same way or
fill out forms in the same way that
operator is because it has actually full
access to the guey browser. Um and as
Casey was mentioning like uh deep
research has some things that operator
doesn't have. And then similarly, one of
the biggest requests for deep research
is for the model to be able to access
like pay sources or things that you have
to um pay a subscription for. And
operator is able to do that.
>> And also um one of our members of our
team, Eric, he was running an analysis
on the types of prompts that people were
trying on operator and we realized that
it was a lot of deep research type tasks
like um research this trip for me then
book it. Um so it really is a natural
combination. In what way is 1 plus 1
equals 3?
>> So in deep research we uh we always
wanted to figure out how to you know uh
let deep research has access to a real
browser that can you know loading all
the real content that previous deep
research cannot has access to.
>> It's funny that you bring up the oneplus
1 equals 3 because not only did we
combine um deep research and operator
but we also threw in like a bunch of
other tools that basically everything we
could think of. Um so like the terminal
tool is there so it can use like um it
can run commands to like do
calculations.
Um the image gen tool is a fun one like
if it wants to you know spruce up its
slides by making an image um it can do
that.
>> Um
>> can cool APIs can produce powerpoints.
>> Yes. Yeah. It can do a lot of different
things.
>> Yeah. Tell us a little bit how people
are using it knowing it's still early
days. So, I think the cool thing about
it is we have some ideas um of how we
think people are going to use it, but I
think we intentionally kept it quite
open-ended. I mean, it's called agent
that's so vague partially because we are
excited to see how people end up using
it. Um, so I think some of the things
that we specifically trained it for were
of course deep research type tasks, so
things where you want a long report on a
topic. um operator type tasks where you
want it to do something for you like
book something or um you know book a
flight uh buy something for you um and
then also um tasks to make slide decks
um we also um you know spent a lot of
effort on making spreadsheets and doing
data analysis but I think there are also
just so many other things the model can
do so we're just excited to see how
people use it kind of similarly to how
when we launched deep research um we saw
a lot of people using it for code search
which was really surprising to us We're
hoping to see a lot of new use cases
that we didn't even think of ourselves.
>> Would you guess it'd be more consumer or
kind of B2B type use cases
>> or is that a false?
>> Hopefully both.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, I think we're kind of aiming for
like the proumer, like someone who's
willing to wait like 30 minutes for like
a detailed report, but that can be in
the like Yeah. in the consumer case or
the you know at your job.
>> Yeah,
>> I think it could be both. Good for both.
>> Do any of you have favorite things
you've used it for? Uh for me it's it's
more like you know pulling data from you
know our uh like a spreadsheet on Google
Docs like a document in our like a
expander log and then make some slides
to present the data or like organize the
data. It's pretty useful.
>> I've been doing a deep dive into ancient
DNA which is one of my you know one of
my interests. Um and there's actually a
lot of exciting work going on like these
past like five years. um they're like
sequencing all this DNA and like
discovering all these facts about like
oh where did like this group of people
come from and like you know historical
stuff. Um the problem is that everything
is so new that um uh you know there
isn't like a reference like source
material for like to summarize like a
survey of these materials. Um but uh you
know agent can go out and pull together
all these sources and synthesize it into
a report that I can read or slides that
I can read. And I think um it's kind of
made for this topic.
>> Yeah, I like it for consumer use cases
like I've used it for online shopping. I
think especially because a lot of um
websites require using visual browser
because it will have a search filter or
something that it needs to go through or
the model like actually needs to be able
to see what the item looks like. Um and
then also for planning events, it's been
pretty useful.
>> What's your favorite shopping query? I
think I was using I was using it for for
clothes shopping.
>> Love it. And you guys also showed us a
really cool use case right before we
filmed this episode. Do you want to
share that one?
>> Yeah, sure. So, that was actually
something that one of our co-workers,
Tedel, shared with us. She asked the um
the agent to estimate OpenAI's valuation
and create based on things that it found
online, create um a financial model with
projections. So create a spreadsheet um
also create a summary analysis and then
also create a slide deck presenting the
results. And so hopefully the model is
correct because it was it had quite a um
ambitious projection for us.
>> It was an impressive slide deck.
>> Yeah, it was a good slide deck. One
thing I want to point out about this um
trajectory was that it reasoned for I
think 28 minutes
>> and um
>> yeah I think this is kind of opening up
a new like paradigm where you know you
ask the agent for a task and then you
step away and it comes back with a
report um and uh yeah I think I think as
agents become more agentic you know
it'll be like longer and longer tasks
and this is a good example of one.
>> Are these the longest running tasks you
guys have have launched so far?
>> I would say so. Like I just did one that
was an hour long and I don't think I've
ever seen that.
>> I didn't know how long codecs can run
for.
>> That's true. Yeah.
>> Um
>> is there anything special that makes
that goes into making an agent run for
so long without kind of flying off the
rails? We have some like uh some tools
to enable the model to be able to
further extend its uh context length uh
beyond what uh like uh what's what's the
original uh like the harder limit
>> so that the model is able to uh perform
task by like you know documenting what's
what is doing and step by step like kind
of like increase the the time like uh uh
it can do the task horizon of the task
it can do uh without the humans
interruption. Yeah,
>> it's also the the flow to go back and
forth between the model and a human also
is very nice. So I can correct it as
it's going, right?
>> Yeah. So this model is very flexible and
collaborative and that was very
important to us. So it's modeled after
how you would interact with someone if
you asked them to do a task for you. So
imagine you're asking someone on Slack
to do something for you. You'd probably
give them instructions and then they'd
ask you some questions and then maybe
start doing the task and then maybe in
the middle of the task they'll say oh
actually can you clarify this for me or
um can you sign into this thing for me
or what am I allowed to do this for you
and similarly you might remember
something that you forgot to say when
you first gave them the task and you
might want to interrupt them and just
say oh hey please also do this um or you
might want a a status update if they're
taking a long time to do it or you I
might want to redirect them if they're
getting, you know, going on the wrong
path. So that's kind of what we modeled
it after. And I think it's very
important that the user and agent are
both able to initiate communication with
each other. So I think what we have now
is probably the most basic version of
what of what this could be. But it's um
better than anything um we've released
before in this area because um at first
the model can or the agent can ask um
you clarifying questions similar to deep
research but it's more flexible. So it
doesn't always ask you clarifying
questions. Um and then um you can um
interrupt the model. So you can say oh
can you summarize what you've done so
far? or oh, I forgot to say I actually
only want like blue sneakers. Um, and
then if the model is going to take some
kind of destructive action or if it
needs you to log into something, it will
um also ask the user um if it's allowed
to do that before doing anything.
>> Um, on this topic um we we kind of built
this um like kind of computer interface.
You guys saw it um where you can kind of
watch along with what the agent is doing
and um that actually persists for beyond
the conversation. So, like um once it's
done with the task, you can actually go
back and ask it follow-up questions um
and ask it to like fix something or um
do another task. Um and um you can also
uh take over that computer. So, you can
click in and then now you have access to
its environment and you can like click
for it or like log in for it or insert
your credit card information or things
like that. Um, and so yeah, I like to
think of it as like looking over your
coworker shoulders and like and like
being able to take to take over if
necessary.
>> Thank you for enabling the micromanager
in me.
>> Just kidding. Um, so we'd love to talk a
little about how this works to the
extent that you can share.
>> Um, yeah. So this agent is trained with
uh the same technique as one the
reinforcement learning. So we give this
uh agent model the all the tools we we
have like implemented in the same uh
virtual machine like a text browser uh
uh like a GUI browser terminal and um
the imaging tool and then the model will
try to solve the task like we created
like which are pretty hard task that the
model has to complete with using these
tools and uh then kind of like we give
we reward reward the model if the model
uh completes the task efficiently and
correctly.
And for example like after this training
the model is able to it should learn to
you know switch between these tools uh
like uh fluently like for example if for
a task of you know the like you ask the
model to research some uh restaurants
and maybe booking a spot for you it will
first do like a deep research style uh
text based browsing and then we'll
probably also use the like GUI browser
to view the uh like image of the food
and also view the availability like uh
which is usually like you know written
JavaScript that you have to use a a real
uh GUI browser and uh then uh or for
example if you are asking it to create
an an artifacts it's uh usually you know
can pull sources from website and then
use them in the terminal. Yeah, I think
the cool thing about this tool compared
to tool use implementation in the past
is that all of the tools have shared
state. So it's all it's like you're
using when you're using your computer
and you have many different
applications, you know, like if you
download something, it's going to be
accessible to other applications. It's
very similar. So the model can open a
page in the text browser, which is more
efficient, but then maybe it realizes it
needs the visual browser. So it can just
seamlessly switch or it could download
something using the using the browser
and then in terminal it manipulates it
or something like that. Um it can run
something in terminal and then open it
in the browser. Um it's very flexible.
Um and so it's just giving the model a
more powerful um way of interacting with
the internet and um files in its file
system and code and things like that.
>> Yeah. And one interesting thing to
emphasize is that like we essentially
give the model all these tools and then
like lock it in the room and then like
it experiments. Um, you know, we don't
really tell it when to use what tool. It
kind of figures that out by itself. It's
kind of almost magic.
>> Is the technique it sounds very similar
to, you know, deep research. We had you
on the podcast before. Should we think
about this as the standard technique of
how OpenAI thinks that that agents will
be trained going forward? I think um we
we can take this really far. Um you know
this was we haven't our teams haven't
been collaborating for that long. We
even framed this model run as um kind of
minimum shippable D- risk. That was most
mostly for PR reasons internally, but um
>> this is really like the most basic
version we could make together and I
think we have so um so much further we
could push this with these methods. Um
for example, the slides capability um is
a new capability. It's a very um you
know already impressive. Um it's a great
work from Aiden Paloma, Martin, a bunch
of other people. Um but you know there's
so much further we can we can push that
and improve um using the same techniques
but I think we can take it further but
we probably need other things too.
>> Yeah, I feel so far it's pretty magical
like the the same IO algorithm just
works
>> um like 01 reasoning like deep research
with to call and then now like a more
advanced you know computer use uh
browser use agents. Mhm.
>> Where does it run into the limits with
this strategy and with this model
specifically as well?
>> I think the interesting thing with this
model is that because it's taking it
able to take actions with external side
effects um there's a lot more risk. So
for deep research it was read only. So
there's kind of a limit to what the
model could do um in terms of like data
exfiltration and other things. But with
this um in theory, the model could
successfully complete a task but take a
lot of harmful actions along the way.
Like you could ask it to um buy you
something and it decides to buy just
like 100 different options to make sure
that you're satisfied. Exactly. Or you
know you can think of many examples like
that. So I think that safety and safety
training and migations was kind of one
of the really core parts of our process
with this model. And um yeah, maybe you
can talk more about it.
>> I was going to mention that kind of
along the same lines, it's like this
contact with the real world that makes
things difficult.
>> Um you know, we have to train this on um
like a bunch of VMs like it's like
thousands of VMs maybe. Um and uh you
know things break and you know as soon
as you're hitting a real website like
the website's down or like you're
hitting like um all these capacity
limits and like load testing and this
kind of thing. Um yeah, it's really the
very beginning and you know we're going
to iron out all these details and
continue but that's a major limitation.
>> How do you think about from the safety
perspective building in the right guard
rails and like how do I make sure the
model is not you know logging into my
bank account and sending it all off to a
Nigerian prince like
>> yeah that's a that's a very good
question. Um yeah this is definitely an
definitely an emerging risk where um you
know the internet's a scary place. you
know, there are a lot of like attackers
and like scammers and this kind of
thing, fishing attacks, like list goes
on and on. Um, and yeah, our model is a
bit like it can it can reason about
these things like if you tell it to be
careful, you know, we've done some
safety training to make this like more
robust. Um, but sometimes it can get
fooled and sometimes it um, you know, is
a bit too overeager to complete your
task.
um we um have a long list of mitigations
and the team has worked really hard to
like stack together a bunch of um
techniques to really try to make the
model as safe as possible. Um so um you
know one example that I'll call out is
that we have um a monitor that looks
kind of looks over its shoulder and just
sees if anything looks funny like
whether it's going on a weird website or
anything like this. um kind of like anti
virus for your computer. It's like just
kind of persistently watching and then
if it looks like there's anything
suspicious then it'll stop the
trajectory and um stop there. Um you
know of course we can't catch everything
and this is a major area that we'll
continue on continue to iterate on. Um
we do have um like a protocol for if
there are new attacks in the wild that
we discover um or we we encounter then
we can rapidly respond and um um update
these monitors kind of like you would
update your antivirus software like it
would like kind of pick up on these new
attacks and hopefully keep you safe.
Yeah, I think the the cool thing about
the safety training is that it's been a
really
cross or effort from um the safety team,
governance team, legal team, research
team, engineering team, like so many
others. Um we have so many mitigations
at every single level. Um we did a lot
of external red teaming, internal red
teaming, but yeah, as Casey mentioned,
there's more.
Surely when we release the model, there
will be new things we uncover. So we
just need to make sure we also have
robust ways of detecting those and then
mitigating those.
>> For some of these models, there's a risk
of what you can do with the models,
whether it's creating biohazards or
otherwise. How do you guys manage some
of that?
>> Yeah, it's actually um bio has been uh
heavily on our mind. Um yeah, the team
has been really thoughtful about, you
know, yeah, this agent, you know, we
think it's very powerful. It can do
research. it can like um really um speed
up your work, but that also means that
it could speed up um harm um and uh kind
of one of the top things that our team
has been looking into is the risk of bio
um biorisk. So like creating bioweapons,
this kind of thing. Um and yeah, the
team has been really thoughtful about um
how to mitigate against this and um
generally being very cautious. We did
like many weeks of red teaming um to
make sure that this model could not be
used for those harms and um a bunch of
other mitigations in place. Shout out
Karen uh who spearheaded this effort. Um
and uh yeah, in general I think we're
we're very like aware of this and um
just trying to be very cautious.
>> Yeah, makes sense. Tell us a little
about the team that came together to
build this. So as Casey mentioned
earlier, we had um deep research
research team and then deep research
applied team and operator research team
or computer using agent research team
and operator um applied team and we've
effectively merged everybody. We all
work really closely together, both the
research teams and the applied team
>> and the vibes has been great.
>> It's been so fun.
>> Ethan and I have been friends for a long
time, so like it was a natural like
>> Yeah, it was really fun. Um
>> how many of you are there
>> on deep research for the majority of the
time? Three or four. Now we have some
some new people which is very exciting.
>> And then on KUA
>> on KUA I think around six to eight uh
somewhere around there
>> on the research side. And then um we
have an amazing um applied team. So like
engineering product design um led by
Yashkumar and then he has just a really
cracked engineering team. So it's it's
been very fun to to to work really
closely. I think that's one thing that
has made this um collaboration really
special is that um the research and
applied teams work so closely and even
from the beginning when we're um
defining what the the product should be
able to do, it's very much a
collaboration between research and
product and design. So um we go
backwards from the use cases we want to
be able to solve um to training the
model and building the product. And
obviously it's able to do it's not able
to do all of those things prop um fully
yet or and it can do some things that we
didn't plan but I think it's a good um
framework for us when we're starting
starting a starting a project. It's like
very grounded in how we want people to
use it in the real world.
>> It's a way smaller team than I was
expecting. Small teams can do amazing
things.
>> Yes. You built a lot.
>> Yeah. And we haven't been working
together for very long.
>> It's been a few months.
>> Yeah. And actually the boundary between
the research team and the applied team
are not you know uh like a very uh like
decisive because like you know during
the model training like lots of uh
applied engineers they are helping us
training the model and also after we uh
you know train the model we like some
research team members are also working
on the you know like a you know setup
model in the deploy the model to the
real users.
>> What was the hardest part about training
this agent? Yeah, I think one one of the
biggest challenge we have is how to how
to make training stable especially given
you know like when we train deep search
it's only using browsing and uh Python
it's like it's it's already like it's
pretty you know mature tools there like
we've been using it for a while but when
training the agent model uh uh it it you
know it have some uh new tools like uh
uh computer and also the terminal like
bundled in the same container in the
same v virtual machine as as a computer.
So it's actually quite hard to train
because uh we are literally you know set
up you know thousand hundreds of
thousands of virtual machines at the
same time and then they all like you
know visit the uh internet and uh we so
it's yeah it's one of the biggest
challenge like we we see actually the
chiny sometimes will fail but like
finally we are very happy that we we get
this model trained
>> the VMs
>> VMs
>> all back to the engineering
>> the same
Um tell us about what's next. More
sources, more tools, better model. How
do you think about it?
>> Well, I think um one thing I like about
our agent framing is that
um you can ask it to do whatever you
want. And you know, you can ask it to do
like every possible task you can
imagine. It just might not do it well.
And I
>> could you tell it like go make me money
on the internet?
>> You can tell it that.
>> It'll try.
>> Should we try that right after this?
>> Let's do it. Um but yeah, I think it's
really a matter of like improving the
accuracy like the performance of task of
like the whole distribution of tasks
>> that anyone does on a computer
>> right
>> which is a lot of tasks
>> and then yeah and through this like
iterative deployment we are very excited
to see like what's the new capabilities
uh our user will you know find in our
agent like you know like the coding
ability in deep research or you know
deep research ability in operator
>> you were using the agent
mode.
>> Yeah.
>> For coding.
>> Yeah, I use it for coding a lot because
I I feel it's you know it's it's
actually not you know you know like a
very uh like always try to rewrite my
whole codebase. It just actually uh have
some small editing and also it's
actually read the you know original uh
docs of different functions pretty well
like uh so it you know I think I feel it
hallucinate less on the function coding.
>> Oh interesting. How do you choose when
to go to codeex versus when to go to
agent for that? Um for the agent it's I
I use it more similarly to how I use for
O3. So it's more like an interactive uh
experience. For the codex it's more like
you know you have some uh you know well
designed uh problem that you want and
you know a coworker to solve and then uh
it will make a PR for you but for the
engine it's more like just give you a a
function or give you a suggestion.
>> Cool.
>> And it can do code search because it can
access GitHub through the API connector.
So code search kind of things. Yeah,
>> it almost feels like you know the agent
road map up until now you've you've
built the different almost like
appendages of what it would take to have
an agent and by combining them all this
really is like the f first like fully
embodied agent on a computer. I think
it's very exciting. Yeah, I think
another area that we're excited to to
push on is um the experience of
collaborating with the agent. I think
this model is actually very good at
multi-turn conversations and it's very
nice to um to continue working on a task
with I think that's one of the
deficiencies of deep research. Um a lot
of people will do multiple deep research
requests in a single conversation but it
doesn't always work so well. So I think
we're really happy with this model's
multi-turnability and we just want to
you know improve even further. And then
I also think like personalization and
memory um for agents will also be very
important. And also um right now every
agent task is initiated by the user but
in future it should also be doing things
for you without you having to even ask
in the first place. Yeah, I'm also
pretty excited about um the UI and UX
surrounding the agent because right now
um I think you know obviously we're
working in a chatbt world like it's like
you start a conversation and it goes but
you can imagine a lot of different modes
of interactction interacting with an
agent um and I'm really excited to
explore different ways of yeah different
ways of interacting with the with the
agent. Do you see this as always being a
kind of single omnisient
super agent or will there be the you
know financial analyst sub agent and the
you know personal party planner sub
agent like what what's your vision for
how that kind of plays out?
>> I think people have different opinions
on this.
I think in the limit, if you could just
ask one thing and it can figure out
what it needs to do to finish the thing
that you want it to do for you, that
seems like it would be easiest. Like if
you just had a really amazing chief of
staff who knows how to route things
correctly and basically can do anything
you need, that seems like it would be um
pretty easy.
>> I think I agree with that take. Um and
like even in some of our trajectories
where like I don't know you're asking
about um I don't know maybe like a
shopping task like sometimes it'll go
into terminal and like do some like
calculations you know budget and like I
think the model should be free to use
all the tools at once. Um it doesn't
need to be a financial analyst to like
have the financial analyst like tool
set. Yeah, I I feel like like when you
launch the product, it's sometimes makes
uh sense to you know have some GBTS like
uh you know like a customized model or
customized instruction to you know put
the model into uh you know a specific
row but in general like when training
the model there are lots of you know pos
positive transfer between you know deep
search uh core operations uh also you
know slice generation like all of these
skills are transferable so it uh makes
much more sense to you know just have a
single agent like, you know, as an
underlying base model.
>> Totally. I guess even though you know
people do different types of work, we're
all fundamentally we're sending emails,
we're making slide decks, we're doing a
lot of the same work in front of a
computer. I'd love to understand some of
the learnings from the reinforcement
learning perspective like um it seems
like that's the method that seems to
really be working for you guys with
agents.
uh was it like very data intensive to
kind of get to this point of having an
agent that's so good at you know such a
wide variety of tasks or like what what
were some of the learnings um from an RL
perspective? Yeah. So um you know uh we
actually we create a bunch of very
diverse set of task like uh some task to
find some you know like a very niche uh
like uh topic or very niche answer in
the internet or some task you know like
like just very similar to deep research
like you need to write a whole uh fully
lensed article and uh also lots of you
know uh tasks like just all the tasks
that we want the model to be good at and
uh yeah and uh So far we we we think
that as long as you know like you can
you know grade this task where like
after the model give you a result you
you can judge whether uh the you know
the the robots or the the model's
performance good or not. You can kind of
like reliably train the model to be like
a even better on this task.
>> And was there anything special you need
to do to make sure it had good
turnbyturn interaction with users when
doing that training or was it just about
the type of trajectories you collected?
>> Yes. So like uh I think most uh most of
time we focus on uh end to end uh
performance like you know like a from uh
from the from a way specified a prompt
how to complete the task
>> and somehow it's very good at working
with users.
>> To to your question the reinforcement
learning is very data efficient. So that
means that we're able to curate a much
smaller set of very high quality data.
um the scale of the data just so
minuscule compared to the scale of
pre-training data. Um so we're able to
teach the model new capabilities um by
just curating these much smaller
highquality data sets.
>> I will say to get the operator piece to
work well um you know before we have
before we do RL um the model has to be
good enough to like have like a basic
like basic
>> completion of tasks. Um and our team has
spent a lot of time in the past like
over the past two maybe maybe three
years um getting the model to that point
where it's able to actually reason about
a page and like kind of um like
understand visual elements really well.
So this model is built on all that as
well. Actually, could you say a little
bit more about that? Because I remember
early days of OpenAI. This was always
part of the like the world of bit stuff
and you're trying to RL the um the mouse
the mouse paths and it was just like way
too unbounded of a problem. What's
changed now for that to be kind of
solvable?
>> Yeah, that's great that you point out
the world of bits. That's um uh this
project does have a very long lineage um
dating back to like 2017 or or so. Um
actually like our like code name is like
world of bits two like for for the
computer use part.
>> That's awesome.
>> Um and uh yeah what's changed I think um
essentially the scale of the training
has changed like we have I don't know
the multiplier but it's it must be like
100,000x or something like in terms of
compute um uh the amount of training
data we've done both in pre-training and
RL. Um, so yeah, I really think it's
just scale and
>> um the the scale catching up to um our
ambition, I guess.
>> Wow, scale is all you need.
>> I believe it.
>> And some good data.
>> Are there particular capabilities or
functionality that you're especially
excited about in agent mode? Uh yeah so
this model is uh actually pretty good at
at doing some real research like data
science and also you know summarize the
uh reports or like the findings in a
spreadsheet. So we have some ev
evaluation like you know data science
bench we evaluate the model and it's
actually outperform the human baseline.
So in some samps it's actually super
human in some you know research task and
we can rely on them on the model to you
know like perform some basic analysis
for us
>> and this is an area that John Blackman
on our team was really pushing on like
spreadsheets and data science. So shout
out John.
>> Spreadsheets and data science. You are
automating us out of a job over here.
>> Elevating us out
>> enhancing.
Another thing I'm excited about is um
uh you know we released operator in
January and um I you know it was decent
at clicking around but I think we've
substantially improved that capability
where it's like much more accurate and
just kind of getting the basic things
right
>> um is what I'm actually excited about
where it can like reliably fill out a
form and um you know do those kind of
things. Date picking.
>> Date picking. Date picking still needs a
bit of work. But
>> for some reason, date picking is just
the hottest task.
>> It's hard for human too.
>> Like picking a date in
>> the calendar drop.
>> Okay, last question. Um it seems like
you guys have the overall framework and
structure in place for something really
interesting here. Uh what's ahead? Where
do you go from here? I I think the thing
that um we're really excited about is
that this tool that we've given the
model access to is very general. It's
basically um most of what you could do
on a computer. And if you think about
all of the tasks that a human can do on
a computer, it's very extensive. Um and
so now we kind of feel like it's a
matter of us um making the model good at
all of those tasks too and figuring out
a way of training on as diverse of tasks
as possible um with this very general
tool. So I think there's a a lot of um
hard work ahead of us but we're very
excited about it and I think we're also
excited about pushing different um forms
ways of interacting with the agent. Um,
I think there'll be a lot of new
interaction paradigms between like users
and um, these virtual assistants or
agents. Um, so a lot of exciting times
ahead.
>> I can't wait to see it. Thank you.
Thanks for joining us. Congratulations
on the launch.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Thank you for having us.
[Music]